# Geocode-Visualization

## Visualisation of Geocode data using Python automated scripts and a map tool provided by [Dr. Chuck]


## Working of the entire project:
#### 1. We will enter the list of locations that we want to visaulize in locations.data file.
#### 2. Then we will run locLoad.py script.
    1. locLoad.py will fetch the geocode data using the Google Geocoding API.
    2. This will be done for all the locations mentioned in the locations.data file.
    3. The data fetched by locLoad.py for Geocoding API will be in JSON format.
    4. All these data will be stored in a sqlite database.
#### 3. Now we will run locDump.py script.
    1. locDump.py will read the sqlite database generated by locLoad.py.
    2. This script will generate locations.js file containing latitude,
       longitude and formatted address of each location in the   locations.data file
       in the form of list of list names 'myData'.
#### 4. Now locations.js file will be used by locGoogleMap.html file containing the tool by [Dr. Chuck] to visualize the locations on the world map.  

#### 5. Finally run locGoogleMAp.html file to see the geocode visualization.

> All the above mentioned files from Step-1 to Step-2
> are present in 'files' folder.To view those files

```sh
$ cd files
````

## But there is no need to execute each of these python scripts individually. Just execute the run.py in the root directory and get all the work done in a single click.


#### How to run the run.py script

> Clone or download the repository in your local
> repository and execute the
> following command in the terminal.

```sh
$ python run.py
````

**Personal Project**
###### Part of Coursera course.    

[Dr. Chuck]: http://www.dr-chuck.com/
